# mental_health_capstone_project

We've all been impacted by mental health at some point before. Whether through personal experience, the experiences of friends or loved ones, or even coworkers and peers, everyone has seen what the human mind is capable of. We all experience the world, after all; just in different ways. As a student of computer science and a psychology degree holder, my goal has long been to find a way to combine my admittedly vastly different areas of interest in a way that helps people. Mental health was and is my passion within the psychology field, and although I decided graduate school for counseling or clinical psychology wasn't the right path for me, I have never lost my desire to help those in need. Luckily, psychology and computer science aren't mutually exclusive after all. Technology and computers were designed to help people. They make the things that humans do easier, and help them with daily tasks. Who's to say they can't take some of the emotional burden off our shoulders too? That's where my interest in mental health software comes into play. As we venture into the world of telehealth, chatbots, and mood trackers, the demand for convenient and accessible mental health technology is growing. While it can't replace traditional therapy, I believe software built on familiar devices we use every day can play a critical role in complementing mental health treatment. It can allow users to feel safe and comfortable, as well as feel in control of their treatment and progress. It can provide easy access to resources at the push of a button. It may even be able to predict harmful behaviors and patterns before a user or therapist can. I would like to play a role in developing these helpful tools so more people can have access to the help and resources they need. This capstone project is my first step into this field. The project takes the form of an Android phone app and allows users to track their mood every day, allowing them to compare their data over longer periods of time and pick up on patterns of symptoms. It also allows them to write out their thoughts more specifically and recommends resources and articles that may be of interest to them based on their symptoms and concerns. This application allows for a daily opportunity for users to check in with themselves, which could help them discover what further aid and resources they need.
